# Requirements elicitation

Requirements Workshops, Document Analysis, Interface Analysis, Interviews, Survey/Questionnaire, Observation, Brainstorming, Focus Groups, Prototyping

## Trainee

## Junior

Knows from where requirements can come from:

- customer
- stakeholders

Has understanding what is requirements elicitation.
Has ability to ask questions to clarify uncertainties.
Can work with documents to analyze data in order to clarify uncertainties.
Can listen on meetings with customers, collect the meeting minutes, meeting follow-ups. Can compare elicitation results with other results obtained from other sources of information.

## Middle

Knows main sources of the requirements:

- Existing system\Documents
- Stakeholders\Customers\End users

Knows the definition and understands (how and when to use) all techniques like:

- Requirements Workshops,
- Document Analysis,
- Interviews,
- Interface Analysis,
- Survey/Questionnaire,
- Brainstorming,

Has experience in Interviews, Document analysis, Interface analysis, Questionnaire

## Senior

Can plan the elicitation process based on the input, change scope and level of details required for the requirements.

Can plan stakeholder engagement; interraction with the stakeholder depending on the decision-making role:

- participant in decision-making discussions,
-  subject matter expert (SME) lending experience and knowledge to the decision-making process,
- reviewer of information, and approver of decisions

Knows the definition and understands when and how  to use all techniques and has experience in:

- Requirements Workshops, 
- Document Analysis, 
- Interviews, 
- Interface Analysis, 
- Survey/Questionnaire, 
- Observation,
- Brainstorming, 
- Focus Groups
- Benchmarking

Can plan Requirements Workshops, Survey/Questionaire, Observation, and Focus Groups, can carry out unstructured interviews

## Expert

Everything that was for Senior + 

Can suggest most suitable and efficient elicitation techniques basing on project specifics and complexity.
Can easily prepare plans of elicitation sessions for different cases and provide recommendations on how to conduct such sessions using elicitation techniques.
Can consult and conduct gap analysis in business analysis process on other projects.
