# Technical & business background

Bug life cycle, test suite, usability, design tools, wire frames design, REST API architecture, basic OOP, SQL

## Trainee

## Junior

Bugs - basic understanding of the bug's lifecycle and good bug's attributes.
UI/UX - basic knowledge of the difference and key trends.
Basic understanding of server-client architecture.
Have some knowledge in some domains at least in one and understand key business processes.

## Middle

Understanding of the Bug's management and cooperation with the QA team to indicate the defects identified.
UI/UX - has some experience in interaction with the Design team and understanding of the application design concept; may review and comment mock-ups in the Design apps.
API - has good understanding of the API messages and may assist in the collection of data for the request-response.
OOP/SQL - has basic understanding of the types of apps architecture and SQL, can use Dev Tools for work related to System analysis and QA.
Have proven knowledge in some domains at least in one and understand key business processes, can find process gaps and initiate their discussion.

## Senior

Can manage QAs' team - initiate the regression, prepare test documentation for releases, conduct UAT, approve the scope of smoke and review/reprioritize the exsiting bugs.
UI/UX - has experience in interaction with the Design team and understanding of the application design concept; understands the theory of the UI/UX and may suggest enhancements. May use any prototyping tool to present the idea.
API - has good understanding of the API messages and prepares the documentation of data for the request-response.
Good in SQL, REST API Services, Microservices, JSON, XML, SOAP.
OOP - has good understanding of the architectural approaches and the specific of the current project.
Good knowledge in excel functions.
Have strong knowledge in some domains at least in one and understand key business processes, can find process gaps and analyse the impact on the process, propose ways to improve it. Can easy inspect new domain.

## Expert

Gained experience enables to initiate improvements in the process of the Bugs management and cooperation of the BA and QA teams. Initiates the regression; approves the scope and review/reprioritize the exsiting bugs.
UI/UX - has good experience in interaction with the Design team and understanding of the application design concept; understands the theory of the UI/UX and may suggest enhancements. Uses any prototyping tools to present the idea. May guide the Designer on the priority and Client focused UI.
API - has good understanding of the API messages and prepares the documentation of data for the request-response.
Good in REST API Services, Microservices, JSON, XML, SOAP.
Postman/Swagger usage for API testing/documenting.
OOP - has good understanding of the arcitectureal approaches and the specific of the current project.
SQL - has good SQL knowledge and database relations and dependencies.
Advanced knowledge and good experience in excel functions.
Have strong knowledge in some domains at least in one and understand key business processes, can find process gaps and analyse the impact on the process, propose ways to improve it. Can easy inspect new domain. Strong knowledge of relevant solutions to improve the process.
